Let's start diving into middleware before we have a look at authentication middleware basically describes
a function that's executed before a route is loaded before a page is loaded and you can attach middleware
to all your routes so you can basically say load debt middleware.
I'm giving you for any route in the app or you can also give it on a per layout or per page basis.
But before we dive into that let's simply create a middleware and Ford and all create my lock middleware
so locked on to Julius.
I created this in the middle where folder as you can see and a middleware is just a function.
It's really just a javascript function which receives the Context object.
You already know that object from the async data and the server and its actions.
Now in this function here we can run which ever code we want to run and it will be executed.
But for a given page is loaded.
Now important if you're running a synchronous code in your.
So for example if you're sending HTP request which you can do then you will have to return a promise
here.
So return ex-CEO SCAD for example.
So return the promise which wraps your asynchronous code.
If you're running synchronous code you don't need to return anything in here.
So if we're not let's do something very simple and let's simply log middleware the lock middleware is
running for example.
Now this function here.
And that's why I didn't give it a name.
Should then be exported so export it as the default office file.
This is how developed middleware looks like.
Again any code can be executed or if it's asynchronous return it.
Now since you see that we get this context object as an argument you might already guess that this malware
runs both on the server and the client depending on whether we're on the initial load or if we're clicking
around in the already loaded application.
And that is exactly the case middleware.
This function is executed either on the server for the first load or on the client but to ensure that
it's executed at all we need to attach it to a page.
So the lowest level we can attach it to is one specific page.
For example the Post's Page year we add it by going to our view component object here and there we can
add a special keep the middleware key just as async data does only works on page components.
If you added to another component this will have no effect middleware then takes a string of the file
name of your middleware without the file extension.
So in my case just log log will then refer to this locked O.J.'s file in the middleware folder.
So you should place all your M.O.s in that folder.
And with that tiny change whenever we load this index of you fall in the post folder.
We should execute this middleware.
Let's see this in action.
Let's go back to our running application.
I'm on the starting page here and ignored at Arutz just to image it doesn't find and never know navigate
to block.
We see middleware.
The log middleware is running in the log here.
Now if I reload the page we don't see it here but we see it in our server side log.
And this is what I mentioned middleware runs on either the server if we're loading the page for the
first time if we're loading it because we refreshed the page or entered a you are ill or it runs on
the client.
If we got there by clicking around now we added mail word to a single page.
We're not limited to this.
As we said you can also add middleware to a out to loaded on any page that uses deadly mode or you use
it on all routes.
Let me show you how you attach it to a layout.
Let's say we want to attach it to the default layout then we can simply go to the view component there
and add to middleware key here again added in the same way as you added it to a single page.
And if you now save this you already see the output here in the server because it reloaded the page
reload the page again.
We see it again here.
And interesting thing is if we now go to about I'll see it in the console because now I navigate there
by clicking if I reload the page.
I don't see the console but it's added to my service side belong there.
We now log it five times as you can see if I go back to the blog page you see now it's actually printed
twice a year because I edited to both the layout and to the individual page.
So this indicates that middleware is executed multiple times if we edit on different levels.
And that is actually the wanted behavior.
So you can't add middleware to a page tool layout or to both.
The last option you have is that you added to all routes you do this in the next conflict Julia's fault.
And there you can do that by adding their router configuration item I mentioned in the last module there.
You can also add a middleware key and point to the log middleware.
And if you do this it recompiles.
And now let's see what happens if I reload this page I'm on the all locked post page and now we get
the middleware launched five times.
And if you're wondering why it's executed five times if we only edited two free places this is simply
happening on the server because there are some redirections going on.
You can see that it only runs free times in reality so to say if you navigate away and back to the block
posts now you see only three new words were added here.
This becomes even clearer if you navigate away reload.
So the console is cleared and go back to block three times.
This is how the middleware runs and how it is executed it's executed for each place where you edit.
But then you've got different places where you can added the general router middleware attached to all
routes on a given layout or on an individual page.
Now I will remove some of the logging millibar for now by commenting it out.
But this is something you should keep in mind.
This is how you can run code before you enter and you route.